---
layout: post
title:  "Joel Quiles - Software Engineer Resume"
image: ''
date:   2020-01-07 00:12:00
tags:
- professional 
- work
- career
description: ''
categories:
- professional
- career
serie: professional
---

- github [@teh0xqb](https://github.com/teh0xqb)
- <quilesbaker@gmail.com>
- <http://linkedin.com/in/joelquiles>
- 🏖️ Florida, USA

## Summary

Very enthusiastic about **Clojure/script** with prior experience, while having achieved expertise developing browser applications using **JavaScript and React**. Proactive about application security. Curiosity drives me and I enjoy creating a positive environment for people around me. Varied interests that span research, involvement in web applications across the full stack, mobile, and desktop applications. Desire to continue working in a distributed workplace.

## Competencies

### Expert
- JavaScript, HTML5, CSS/SASS, REST, AJAX, SPAs, responsive web design
- React, Redux, Apollo graphQL react integration. Hooks, higher-order components, render props
- Package managers, webpack & bundle builds, task automation
- Test-driven development & testing pyramid
- Engineering processes, product lifecycle, code reviews
- vim and spacemacs, git, tmux
- Linux filesystem, tools and terminal

### Proficient
- Clojure, Python, C++, Ruby, Java, bash
- Jira & jql, agile methodologies, project deliverables & organization
- SQL, Cassandra databases. Data Modeling, query design, and application integration
- graphQL, nginx, D3js, API design
- Application Security: CSRF, XSS Protection & CSP, server security, configuration of HTTP headers
- Immutable, concurrent, asynchronous, and functional programming

## Professional Experience

### @ DataStax | distributed, remote
*2016 - 2020*

Built on Apache Cassandra, DataStax delivers the ultimate always-on hybrid and multi-cloud database.

#### *Cloud Applications – UI Technical Lead*

- Design, gather requirements, and code. Participate in planning and tech-debt management.
- Coordinate with senior engineers and drive decisions by consensus. Write proposals and internal application documentation.
- Assorted technologies: JavaScript (ES6), React, Material UI, Apollo graphQL, webpack, babel, emotionJs, jest, enzyme, DevExpress, npm+yarn, and testcafe for integration tests.
- Work on delivering features on a cloud application SaaS offering.
- Creation and maintenance of an internal UI components library for use across company products, hosted on a private repository.
- Use of toggle flags for feature delivery, whitelisting, and A/B testing. 

#### *OpsCenter Lifecycle Manager: Provisioning – Senior Software Engineer*

- Definition files (edn) used to generate all possible configurations for Cassandra database settings.
- Clojure for backend server, compojure for API. Boot used for builds, tooling. Mount for application state. 
- JavaScript + React + redux. UI that parses definition files and generates form fields for users to customize supported settings, across configuration files, across all supported database versions.

#### *OpsCenter: Monitoring – Software Engineer*

- Clojure-based monitoring agent installed on each Cassandra node. Each agent instance Interfaces with JMX metrics and events published by a running Cassandra instance. Leinengen for build and project configuration.
- Python daemon for metric collection, API routes. JavaScript front-end.
- Off-the-shelf installable product. Pseudo-Scrum with backlog and standups.

### @ SeamlessDocs | Miami, FL
*2015*

Government forms and task pipelines can be a beautiful experience.

#### *Sr. Software Engineer, Lead*

- Create and maintain multiple EmberJs single page applications.
- Maintain multiple microservices built with NodeJs, Java (+itext), and Python.
- Deployment configurations for nginx, and some AWS management.
- Introduced git and onboarded all applications to version control and github.
- Implement security on server instances, analyze security with tiger, add swap space, rootkit detection, ulimit for nginx processes.
- Use tsung/taurus to benchmark server load & capacity.
- Create WBS spreadsheets and try to come up with creative ways for the team to practice estimation techniques (planning poker).
- Use of phantomjs to prerender a JavaScript website for a search crawler to consume.
- Wrote a blog article featuring the company products & technical details of the refactor.

### @ Urban4m
*2014 - 2015*

Discover and evaluate the best area to expand your business, relocate your family, or find statistical patterns with APIs and a easy-to-use openlayers maps application. 

#### *Front-End Web Developer*

- Started a single-page web application using AngularJs, openlayers maps, D3js, and a thin NodeJs application server. Interfaced with elasticsearch.
- Programmatically generate screenshots of portions of the web interface.
- Re-worked and re-designed landing pages for a modern feel and a maintainable code base. Use of bootstrap and various CSS grid libraries.

### @ Verizon Wireless POS | Atlanta, GA
*2012 - 2014*

#### *Systems Engineer at Point of Sale IT Department*

- JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, and Java across various applications.
- Rewrite of the kiosk application previously used in Verizon stores.
- Use of JMVC and AngularJs JavaScript frameworks.

### @ Rock Solid Technologies | San Juan, PR
*2009*

#### *Developer*

- Worked with client on site to retrofit security of an existing application.
- Removed previous user database and replaced with Active Directory roles.
- Effort to comply with the Sarbanes–Oxley Act; included reporting and role assignment dashboard.
- Light exposure to C#, ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL Server.

### @ Nic.pr | San Juan, PR
*2008*

Puerto Rico Top Level Domains; .pr domain names.

#### *Developer*

- Familiarized with basic dns concepts and domain name registrars internals.
- Exposure to ASP, VBscript, PHP, Javascript, HTML, CSS.
- Worked on _Domains of the Caribbean_ project.

## Education

Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering.
*Computer Science Minor*.
**University of Puerto Rico, 2012.**

Research topic: *Optimized Strategies for the Mastermind Game*.
- Implemented various algorithms from research papers from popular computer scientists (Donald Knuth) including Worst-Case, Entropy, Best-Case.
- Created a C console application, in order for computer to play and emulate all possible game variations and outcomes per turn, of the Mastermind Game.
- Based on a brute force approach. Flexibility to run as separate sub programs and report compiled results. 
- Presented results at a conference and published a research paper.
